Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In the next lecture, we're gonna create
a Free-Tier Google Cloud Platform account.
So in this lecture, I just want to tell you
a little bit about how those work.
Now a free trial account in GCP
is a billing account that does not get charged.
The key thing here is that you need to manually upgrade this
for it to become a paying account.
Now this just blows AWS' free-tier out of the water
because it works so much better
for people who are trying to learn the platform.
I always get just a little bit concerned
when people create an AWS account to learn on
because if they're not careful,
they could run up huge charges.
But that's not the case with the GCP free trial account.
Now setting up an account like this
still does require a credit card for verification,
but it won't get charged.
When you create a free trial account for GCP,
you also get 300 US dollars of credit
that you can use for up to 12 months.
And this is basically what defines your free trial account.
If you either use up the $300 or let 12 months go by,
then your free trial will be over.
But when your free trial ends,
your account will be paused
and you'll have the option
to upgrade to a paid account then,
whether this happens in 12 months
or sooner because you've run out of credit.
Now it bares repeating,
this really is excellent for learning.
You can do all sorts of things in this free trial account
and really get your hands dirty learning real stuff in GCP.
Now they say that business accounts
are not eligible for the free trial,
so you want to set this up as your own personal account.
And you should be aware that it does have some restrictions.
So when you're on the free trial,
you're not allowed to have more than eight
virtual CPUs together at once.
Now you can split this up in a number of different ways.
Maybe you'd wanna run one eight CPU machine for awhile
and then maybe switch things up later
and run eight single CPU machines.
Some more restrictions during the free trial
are that you can't attach any GPUs to your machines,
nor any TPUs for boosting TensorFlow performance,
and you're not allowed to ask for any Quota increases
while you're on the free trial.
Another thing Google calls out
is that you are not allowed to do any cryptomining.
They're givng you $300 of credit
so that you can learn the platform,
not so that you can try and exchange it
for some other currency.
Also, although you're welcome to run
whatever you want on it,
they don't recommend that you run production environments
and they don't give you any service level agreements
that you can rely on.
During the free trial,
you also can't use any premium OS licenses
or Cloud Launcher products with extra usage fees.
The nice component to a Free-Tier GCP account though,
is the "Always Free".
Always Free is a certain amount of different services
that you can use with out having to pay for it.
And it's kind of nice that Always Free usage
doesn't even count against your free trial credits.
So that means your $300 will last even longer.
Also, as you might guess from its name,
this lasts beyond the end of the free trial period,
which is really nice.
Now the Google documentation has a lot more detail
about the specific limits for each service,
but I'm gonna go through just a few highlights here.
But don't worry at all about trying to remember
all of these limits.
You will not need to know them for your exam
and you can always just look up
whatever the current amount is
whenever you want to try out a new service.
From the compute side of things,
each day you can run 24 hours
worth of an f1-micro instance in most US regions
and you won't get charged for it.
Of course, if you're running multiple of these all day long,
you will get charged for the additional ones.
But you could, for example,
run eight of them for a couple of hours
and still not get charged.
Now I'd like to point out that this has nothing
to do with where you yourself are located,
only where you choose to run the instances.
Also in the Always Free compute category,
we have App Engine,
where your app can run for 28 hours each day,
in North America, without getting charged.
Of course this means it can still be free,
even if App Engine has some part of the day
where it's running more than one instance for you.
You can also run two million Cloud Functions every month
with it still being free,
within certain runtime and size limits.
In the storage category,
it's important to realize that the storage is averaged
entirely over the month.
So for example, storing a terabyte of data
and then deleting it within a minute
isn't going to cost a lot at all.
Okay, so in the Always Free tier,
you can store five gigabytes of Regional Cloud Storage,
one gigabyte of data in Cloud Datastore,
and 10 gigabytes of data in BigQuery.
And for BigQuery,
every month you can do one terabytes worth
of query processing in the free tier.
More free storage includes 30 gigabytes
of hard drive storage
on Google Compute Engine and App Engine,
five gigs of snapshot storage on those,
and five gigs of StackDriver logs
with a seven day retention period.
Moving on to Networking,
I should point out that if your data
is headed to China or Australia,
that doesn't qualify for the Always Free tier,
but could be applied to the free trial credit you've got.
Anyway, aside from those two,
you can have one gigabyte each month of data
that leaves your App Engine project for free.
Similarly for Compute Engine, one gig per month.
Google Cloud Functions are even more generous,
giving you five gigs of data that can exit them each month
and also five gigs of data than can leave Cloud Storage
that's based in North America.
Now, Cloud PubSub is a kind of interesting one.
Here you can have 10 gigs of data
that goes through it each month for free.
And because Cloud PubSub is a global messaging system,
you could potentially be writing data to it
from one region in the world
and reading from it from another.
All right, finally let's just take a quick look
at some of the extra things
that are in the Always Free tier.
Every day, you can do 120 minutes
worth of builds in Google Cloud Container Builder,
you can do 60 minutes of voice recognition each month
in Google Cloud Speech API,
you can run 1,000 units per month
through the Vision API,
and 5,000 units per month
through the Natural Language API.
Google also has a Cloud Shell built into the console
that we'll be using a lot through this course.
And in there, you can store five gigs of data persistently.
You can also do a little bit of private hosting
in Google Cloud Source Repositories.
Well all right.
If you have any questions for me, please let me know.
If not, please feel free to move on to the next lecture,
where we're actually going to create
your Google Cloud Platform free trial account.
Thank you.