Okay!
Hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lab
where you're going to create
your very own
Free-Tier Google Cloud Platform Account.
Now specifically, what we're going to do
is we're gonna create this free trial
GCP account,
but we're not going to link it
to your existing email address.
We wanna make a new Gmail account
behind the scenes for billing.
We're also going to secure this
with two-factor authentication,
and you might want to consider forwarding
this account's email to your normal account
so you can get any notifications.
Now I should point out that forwarding the mail
like this could be a potential attack vector.
In particular, if someone hacked your normal
email account they might be able to use that
to reset the password on this billing account.
But especially for this free trial account
that you're setting up,
it's probably still worth it
so you get the notifications.
Now you might ask,
why should we use a separate Gmail account here?
And the answer really is Least Privilege.
This is the principle where "Every program
and every privileged user of the system
should operate using the least amount of privilege
necessary to complete the job".
And especially for what we're setting up,
it's a very bad habit to use admin privileges
to do normal things.
This admin account that we're setting up,
after we've done a few things with it,
will very rarely be needed.
Now that said, I do wanna warn you upfront
that we will take a few shortcuts
as we go through the course,
so that we don't get hopelessly bogged down.
But I will try to point them out as we go.
All right, to do this lab
I'm gonna have you use Incognito Mode.
In Chrome, this is called an "Incognito Window"
in Firefox they call it "Private Browsing"
and other browsers call it something similar.
But the reason we use this
is so that you're not attaching all of your
normal, day-to-day stuff to this GCP account.
You want to set up a completely separate account.
Now if you absolutely never login to any
Gmail or Gsuite accounts,
then this might be unnecessary for you.
But personally, I'd still recommend
you do it in Incognito Mode.
Now this is something you really should get comfortable with
because we're gonna use it throughout this course.
Google can act a little strangely when you have
multiple accounts logged in.
I mean, it works well enough for Gmail and Calendar,
I do that all the time myself,
but we really wanna make sure that we keep
everything straight as we're going through the labs.
All right, to get to one of these things directly,
you can right-click on a link,
such as in the resources panel,
and say "Open Link in Incognito Window".
Or to open a new empty window in Chrome,
you could hit the command + shift + N
or control + shift + N shortcut keys.
Or in Firefox, command + shift + P
or control + shift + P
will do the job.
All right, enough talking!
Let's do it!
So open up and Incognito Window,
and join me at the sign-up link for your free trial.
Okay, here we are in the Incognito Window.
I'm going to paste in the link,
and let's get going.
All right, it offers that I can sign in
with an existing one,
but remember that we're going to create a new account here.
Click "Create Account".
Now in this screen,
instead of just creating a Google Account,
and linking that to our existing email address,
we wanna create a new Gmail account.
Once you've entered your name,
a username that hasn't been taken,
of course this has to be unique
so you'll need to pick something different than I do,
and a strong password,
that you are storing safely I hope.
Click next to continue on.
Oh by the way,
I don't recommend that you use any periods
like it suggests you could in your username.
The way that Gmail handles periods
in usernames can be a bit of an issue.
Click "Next" and move on.
All right, we do want to secure our account
so let's enter in our phone number here.
If I can type it correctly.
That faint buzzing in the background
was my phone giving me the code,
which of course I'll type in now.
It doesn't matter if you see it,
because this is a single-use code.
We don't have to connect this to a recovery
email address like they offer here,
but really I think it's a good idea to do that.
All right, once we've got the information in,
we hit "Next"
of course we always read the Terms of Service
and Privacy Policy before we agree to those, right?
At the bottom we say "I Agree".
Answer whatever you want in terms of
Feature Announcements and whatnot.
More terms of service which of course we also read.
Say "Yes", "Agree and Continue"
note here, you won't be charged.
No payments or automatic charges unless you upgrade.
And we wanna make sure that this is an individual account.
I will enter my information here,
including the credit card details.
All right, now that I've entered all the information,
I can click "Start My Free Trial".
It takes a little bit of time to set things up.
And again we're reassured
that we won't be billed until we give our permission.
That feels nice, right?
All right, our account is now live!
So we say "Got It".
And here we are!
We'll come back to this Google Cloud Platform console
in a little bit,
but before we do,
I want us to set up the two-factor authentication
on our new Gmail account.
Start by clicking on the little icon
up in the top right-hand corner.
Go to "Account",
and then click on the "Signing in to Google" link.
On the right-hand pane,
if you scroll down a little bit,
you'll get to "2-Step Verification".
If you click on that,
here we can make it much harder
for people to take over our account.
We say "Get Started".
Re-enter the password we just made.
Click "Next".
And then setup our phone.
We click "Next",
enter the new code we just got,
"Next again".
It worked!
Do we want to turn on two-step verification?
Well of course, that's the reason we're here!
Say "Turn On"
and here we go.
Now at the moment, I've got this set up
to send me a text message whenever I'm trying to login.
But I could choose a different step,
such as the Security Key,
But I'm just gonna stick with a simple thing right now.
Well all right!
Our account is setup!
Now I recommend that you immediately logout
and then log back in again
to make sure you know exactly what you need to do here;
you remember all the passwords and all that sort of stuff.
So let's do that right now.
I've signed out.
I click sign in to this account.
Re-enter my password,
enter the new verification code,
click "Next",
and yep, everything's good.
From here, I can go directly to Gmail
by just clicking on the little envelope.
Close all the promotion stuff.
I don't need the extra tips.
But if you wanna know how you can set-up the forwarding,
I'll show you here.
You go to the gear,
click on "Settings",
click on "Forwarding and POP/IMAP"
and then add a forwarding address.
Enter your normal email address here.
Say "Next",
"Proceed".
Now the destination address
needs to approve the forwarding setup,
so go and get the code from there.
Type the number into this box,
and click "Verify".
If it tells you "You have verified the forwarding address"
that's good.
So you can say that you wanna forward a copy
of all incoming mail to that box
and still keep a copy in this inbox.
Once you've done that don't forget
to hit "Save Changes" at the bottom of this screen
and then you get this big message at the top
that says "Hey, hey hey! You are forwarding email!"
Because it would be pretty dangerous
if someone set this up on your account
without you knowing it
Google puts this warning
at the top of your screen for a week.
You can't dismiss it because of course that's the point.
If you could dismiss it,
then someone could set it up and dismiss it for you.
Well now we've finished setting up our account.
So if you have any questions, please let me know,
if not, please feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.