Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lab, where we're going to explore
the GCP Console.
All right, we're gonna start off
at this console.cloud.google.com link,
which is where we're gonna start a lot of our labs.
And in this case, we're gonna be logged
in as the account owner that we just created
with the actual GCP account.
So go ahead and join me in the console.
Okay, I'm assuming you've closed down
the incognito windows before, so open up a new one,
head to the GCP Console URL,
and then login with the email address,
and password.
Of course, we'll also need our verification code.
And we're in, now we start out with
this Navigation menu expanded on top of things,
so we can close that down just to get it out of the way
for the moment.
Now up at the top here, we see a notification bar
that tells us how much credit and how many days
we have left in our free trial.
But since we don't wanna be tempted
to hit that upgrade button, let's just dismiss this.
That said, we will wanna be able to see
what our billing information is.
So you can either click on the card over here
to get over to the Billing section.
Or you can open up the Navigation menu
and click on Billing there.
Now I have my screen zoomed in so it's easier
for you to see in the videos,
so I'm gonna collapse this little bar on the left,
and I'm gonna hide the Info panel too.
So here we see that I have 383.96 in credits remaining.
Now the reason this is more than $300 is because
it's Canadian dollars and it was 300 US
that was credited to the account.
'Course there's no exchange rate for days,
so there are still just 364 of those remaining.
Now, while we're here,
we may as well rename this billing account,
and call it My Trial Billing Account instead.
It could make it more clear that this is the one
that's specifically the trial one,
in case you attach another billing account later.
Now, if we wanna see the list of billing accounts we have,
we can click on this drop down
and then Manage billing accounts.
Here we see I still only have one billing account attached.
We can leave this just like this for now.
Up in the Navigation menu, let's head back to the homepage.
Now, here on this main dashboard, we can customize it
so that we only see the stuff that we really care about.
If we press this Customize button up on the top right,
we can turn off cards for things that don't matter to us,
and move things around just by dragging and dropping them.
All right, when we're done playing with the layout,
we can just hit Done, and we'll see a more simplified view.
You probably wanna keep this News card active,
but I'm gonna turn mine off to save some space.
Same goes for this Documentation card.
You might also wanna leave this Getting Started card active.
And explore some of the tutorials
that they've got linked here.
Of course, we'll be going through a number of things
in this course already, so you don't necessarily
have to go and explore on your own yet.
I suggest you leave this APIs card visible for now,
and just watch what happens here as you do things
in this project.
We can also get rid cards using this little drop down,
of course, we do actually want to keep
the Project Info card around.
If we click up here on Activity,
we can also see a list of all the things
that have been happening in this project.
This is a new account and project,
so there hasn't been a lot going on yet.
Speaking of projects, one was automatically created
for us when we created the account.
If we click here, we can see some more information
about it.
Google assigned a project number
and automatically generated an ID for us as well.
The name of the project can be changed
but the Project ID and Project number can't be,
so let's take a look at that, if we go to the Dashboard,
and click on the Project info to go to the project settings,
we see here, the Project ID is grayed out,
the Project number is grayed out,
but the Project name can be changed.
And here's how we can control the project
in a little more depth, but we'll get to that later.
Now, to see a list of the projects that we have,
we can click on this drop down up here.
And this is also where we could create a new project.
For now, let's head back to the main dashboard.
Some other things we see here are that all the
platform services seem to be operating normally
which is nice.
And we can link to the Cloud status dashboard here.
But also, at a glance we see that we have
no resources in this project.
We haven't set up any trace information
or any reporting.
That's not really surprising because we haven't
done anything yet, right?
Just a couple more things to point out
before we finish this exploration,
up at the top we can see our Free trial status,
we can get that bar back by pressing
the little present icon.
We can see Notifications at a glance
from this little menu, and link straight
to the Activities page we saw, no matter where we are.
And we can also learn about things
like Keyboard shortcuts and set up Preferences
in this menu.
If you want, you can also go through Googles
interactive tutorial to show you around the console.
So that pretty much wraps up what I wanted to show you
in the console here.
But before I go, don't press the Cloud Shell button,
no I'm totally kidding, you can press that all you want,
it's actually the free trial Upgrade button
that you do not want to press.
We'll be using Cloud Shell a whole ton
through this course, so don't be afraid of it at all.
All right, if you have any questions, please let me know,
if not, please feel free to move on to the next lecture,
Thank you.