Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lab where we're going to set things up so that Google
automatically exports billing information for us to a BigQuery dataset.
In the GCP documentation, they say tools for monitoring, analyzing,
and optimizing costs have become an important part of managing development.
Billing export to BigQuery enables you to export your daily usage and cost
estimates automatically throughout the day to a BigQuery dataset you specify.
You can then access your billing data from BigQuery.
This is really nice because once you've got the data in a queryable format,
you can use it however you want.
Later on when we've actually got some billing data in the dataset hopefully take
a look at how we can use Data Studio to analyze it.
But Data Studio isn't connecting in any special way.
It's just doing a standard BigQuery query.
So you could write your own tools or use any third-party software or service.
I love it when things are open like that. Alright, to start the lab,
you're going to need to login to the GCP console as the administrative account.
Like before I recommend that you open up the console Lincoln an incognito
window,
but now I'm just going to assume that you know how to do that and I'm going to
jump straight into the console. Okay so here we are in the console.
Now don't worry if your console doesn't look exactly like mine. In fact,
I kind of expect your console to look a little different.
You probably aren't nearly as zoomed in as I need to be,
to take videos and you've probably left a lot of helpful cards showing things
like tutorials, Google news, stuff like that, but no matter,
I'm sure you can still follow along. And if you're having any trouble,
just ask a question on the forums. Don't feel bad to ask if you do get stuck.
In fact,
you're giving another student an opportunity to answer that question and really
lock in their learning. So for your own learning sake,
do try to figure things out first, but don't feel bad if you can't. In any case,
what we want to do here is to set up an export of billing information.
So let's start by going to the billing screen.
We could get there through the card,
or we can go to the menu and say billing. Off on the left,
we have a menu item called Billing Export. Let's go there.
Here we see that we don't currently have BigQuery export set
up.
So let's change that by clicking Edit Settings and now we see some things.
In particular,
we see that where we're going to store the data is in the context of a
project and inside of a BigQuery dataset that we haven't created yet.
Now we could follow this link to go to BigQuery and create a dataset here but
then that dataset will live inside of this project and that's not where we want
it. In GCP, we don't mash all of our stuff together.
Instead, we use projects to manage groups of resources.
So let's actually start there by creating our first new project.
So let's open up the navigation menu and go to the home dashboard. Now,
here we see that GCP is no longer sure which project I was working on.
So it asks me to either select or create a new one,
but don't worry if this prompt doesn't show up on your screen,
pressing on the Select button down here is pretty much the same thing as
pressing on the select a project dropdown up here and from either of those,
you can press this New Project button so you can follow along and in my case,
I'm just going to press the button here that says Create.
Now here's our first real exposure to quotas.
We have 11 projects remaining in our quota.
This means that projects are not an entirely unlimited resource,
especially during our free trial where we can't get any quota increases.
We'll have to pay a little bit of attention to how we use them.
Now we have to give our projects names.
So let's call this one admin project and that's fine for a name because the
names don't have to be globally unique. The project IDs on the other hand,
can't be reused even between different customers.
So you won't be able to create your project with the same ID as you see here.
We can create the project and wait a little bit for it to finish.
There's a new notification,
which isn't that surprising because we just created a project.
Now, when we've got this admin project selected, let's go over to BigQuery.
We could open up the navigation menu and find it in the list,
but we could also go to this helpful little Find tool and get to it that way.
Now, before we create our billing export dataset,
I'd like to just point out that there are a number of public datasets down
here--things like hacker news and weather data.
Since we're here, because we want to create a billing export though we'll say,
Create Dataset.
Now we'll call the dataset billing_export,
and for the data location, we're just going to set it to the US.
Also we want to keep all of our historical data.
So we set the expiration to never. Now,
if we click on this billing export dataset,
we can see that we could add a description
and change the expiration but
what we really care about here is adding a label.
We want to add labels to the different resources we make so that we can track
them later.
Labels are completely free form key and value pairs.
So we could add labels for things like departments or whatever sort of
organization system we want to come up with. When we're done with the labels,
we can see here that this is how Google displays labels department:finance,
where department is key and finance is the value. Function:billing,
where function is the key and billing is the value.
Now don't worry that there aren't any tables created yet.
The billing export itself will create whatever tables it needs. Alright,
so let's finish setting up the billing export.
Let's go back to the billing console
and then back to the billing export section,
Edit Settings, choose our admin project.
The billing export is already preselected for us, and then we save,
alright, it's enabled. Now, it's going to take some time though,
before this billing data starts showing up in the BigQuery dataset and it's also
important to know that if you've been doing anything in this account already,
that won't show up in the export.
Once we enable this export only charges that come through after the time it was
enabled will be exported. Okay, well that covers it for the lab.
So let's just recap.
We need to set up the billing export for each billing account.
We did it now for our free trial account,
but if we create any other billing accounts in the future,
we should remember to go back and set this up for them too. Also,
we saw that when we create resources in Google cloud platform,
we should place them in an appropriate project.
Creating and managing projects is an important thing to be paying attention to.
Another important thing to think about is how we tag resources with labels.
We saw just a quick example of that here,
but you'll want to think about how you structure those tags so that you get the
right information in the right places. Finally,
remember that the billing export is not time in general.
We would measure the delay in hours, not seconds or days.
This means that there are definitely some interesting things you can do with it,
but it's also not a good fit for situations that require instantaneous
response. All right. If you have any questions, please let me know. If not,
please feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.