Okay, Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lab
where we're going to set things up
so that we don't have to keep accessing GCP
with our overpowered administrator account.
Now, I wonna point out
that we are still going to be granting
quite a lot of power to this account that we're gonna use,
but the key thing
is that this user account
will not have the power to upgrade
the billing account to become a paying one.
So, this really limits our risk while we're learning.
Now, for a production setup, though,
we would really consider using
even more restrictive privileges
than what we're gonna be granting here.
And exactly how you do that,
it's gonna depend on how empowered,
or encumbered you want your Dev or DevOps teams to be.
But we'll take a closer look at that
when we cover billing access control
later on in the course.
For now though,
there's one key role we wonna take a look at.
And that's the one called Billing Account User.
Now, if you'll remember back to the intro to GCP course,
roles are collections of permissions
to use or manage GCP resources.
And in this case,
the purpose of the Billing Account User
is to be able to link projects to billing accounts.
Now, you can grant this role
at either the organization,
or billing account level.
But since we only have a billing account
and not yet an organization,
that's what we're gonna do in this lab.
Now, a key thing that they point out in the documentation
is that this role has very restricted permissions.
So, you can grant it broadly.
Typically, in combination with Project Creator.
These two roles allow a user to create new projects
linked to the billing account
on which the role is granted.
So, we'll see how this plays out in the lab.
Now, before you start doing this lab,
you need to get the email address
of a Google account that you control.
And one that's not the admin account
that we created when we signed up for GCP.
This account is going to be the user account
that we use to do a lot of stuff in GCP.
So, if you want,
you could use a pre-existing Google account
that you've made,
or if you have an email address
that hasn't had a Google account created for it,
you could do that now,
or you could choose to make a completely separate
new Gmail account.
Any of these options could be fine,
but I do wonna warn you
that you wonna be able to control this account.
So, you might not wonna use an email address
that'll fall under a lot of security controls
set up by your organization.
And please make sure
that you've got two factor authentication set up
for this particular account.
All right, so to start off with,
I want you to log onto the GCP console
as the administrative account that we've been using.
We're not gonna log in with this user account just yet.
So, go ahead and fire up an Incognito window
and I'll see you in the console.
Okay, so now here we are in the console.
And remember we get here
by going to console.cloud.google.com and signing in.
Right now I'm signed in as the admin account
that we created with our GCP account.
But what we wonna do is effectively to control the billing.
So, let's go to that section now.
Now you've probably already got this,
My Trial Billing Account selected,
but if not,
you can just drop this thing down
and either select it,
or go to manage billing accounts
and selected in the list.
Now, remember, I've hidden this info panel
just to make a bit more space on the screen.
But right now, what we wonna do is on that info panel.
So, I'm gonna show that again.
And now we can see
that there is one billing account administrator
attached to this billing account.
And of course that's the admin account
that we're logged in as right now.
But the reason that we're here,
is because we wonna delegate some of this authority
to another account.
And in particular,
if we look in this role dropdown,
what we want to grant is the billing account user role.
All right, now enter the email address
of the Google account
that we're gonna be using as our GCP user.
When you've done that,
you can hit add.
And quite immediately,
we see the update.
And that's pretty much it really.
We've just granted the ability for this user
to link GCP projects to this billing account.
So, let's check that out.
We'll sign out of this account
and sign in as our user account.
Now, since this is the first time
I've logged in as this particular user,
I agreed to the terms of service.
Now, since I logged out and logged back in,
it tried to go back to the same URL of that admin project.
But since the only authority that we delegated
was to link projects to that trial account,
we're not authorized to view anything in the admin project.
So, if we select a project here,
we have none.
But let's see what happens when we create a new project.
Now, if we create a project called My User Project,
we wait a bit for it to get created.
Once we've waited for that project to be created,
we can drop the select a project dropdown again,
and select My User Project.
And here we see we've automatically been linked up
to that trial account.
Now, we could just dismiss this
but let's see what happens if we try to upgrade.
And here's exactly what we wanted.
Error, you do not have sufficient permissions
to view this page.
We're not able to upgrade that particular billing account.
So, let's dismiss this now
and head over to the billing dashboard
so we can see what it shows.
Now, it won't show us the details
of the individual billing account,
but if we go back to this main spot here,
we can see that there are three projects
attached to this trial billing account.
If we show the info panel while it's selected,
we can see the administrator and the user like before.
But the UI that we were using before
to grant those privileges
is of course gone.
When we look at the projects,
we only see this user project that we just created.
Now, because this GCP user account owns this project,
we can do things like disabled the billing,
or change it to use a different billing account.
But it also means that if someone has access
to this GCP user account,
they can control this user project as much as they want.
So this seems to be a good time to remind you
that you really need to have two factor authentication
set up for this user account as well.
Now, there's one last thing I wonna show in this lab.
So, to do that,
let's go back to the dashboard
and grab the URL for this particular project.
Now, let's sign out
and sign back in as our admin account
and take a look at what happens.
Here we've been switched back to the admin project.
So, let's paste the URL to the user project
and we see that we are not authorized to view that.
So, if we go back to the admin project,
and go to billing,
and manage billing accounts,
we can see the same information that three projects
are attached to the billing account,
but one of them is not one of ours.
We can't even see it in this list.
The lesson here is that owning a project
and being able to control its resources
is completely separate
from being able to control the billing account
attached to that project.
All right, well, that's it for this lab.
So, if you have any questions for me,
please let me know.
If not, please feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.