Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lab.
In this lab, we're gonna take a quick look
at how you can update the course files
in your Cloud Shell.
So do you remember how in the Cloud Shell data flow lecture
I asked you how might you undo the changes
that you had made to those files?
Well, you could try undoing changes manually
in each file but that's really time consuming
and error prone.
Not a recommended approach.
And remember how I also asked you
how you might update those files
if I made some changes to them?
Well, I did make some changes
and I will definitely be making more too.
So before each lab,
you really should make sure that any lab files you use
are up to date.
So a pretty bad way to update the files
would be to delete everything
and clone the whole repository fresh each time
but that's really inefficient,
both in terms of how much data you need
to transfer from GitHub to that Cloud Shell machine
and also in terms of how long it'll take.
Now, of course, if you're already familiar with Git,
then I'm sure that the solution has been obvious
to you all along.
Just pull the changes,
and that's definitely what we're gonna do, yeah.
Now, you can feel free to do that on your own
if you'd like but in case you're not so familiar with Git,
I made a little script to make things easier.
In particular, this script will configure a couple
of default settings in Git,
squirrel away any local changes you've made
for future reference by using Git's stash functionality
and then get the latest updates from GitHub.
All right, so to follow along with this lab
and run the update script,
you'll need to log into the GCP console
with your user account
and open Cloud Shell.
For this lab, it doesn't really matter
which project you use when you open Cloud Shell.
Well, all right, I'll see you in the shell.
Okay, so here we are in the Cloud Shell,
so let's just take a look at the files that we have.
So there's not really a lot here,
just the README file
and the repository that we cloned.
So let's navigate into that repository,
the gcp-cloud-engineer, and take a look there.
Now, this doesn't look like a lot of stuff yet,
but I know already that there's more stuff on GitHub
than we see here and the update.sh file
is the update script that I mentioned.
Now, before we run any script,
it's always a good idea
to make sure we know what it's going to do.
And while we could print the script
to the screen, it's a much nicer browsing experience
to use the editor instead.
So let's open up the editor,
navigate into the gcp-cloud-engineer folder
and click on the update.sh script.
Here we see that it does some setup,
prints out what it's going to do,
configures the user.email and user.name settings in Git,
if they're not already set.
Shows any local changes that have been made,
stashes those changes in Git,
pulls the later changes from GitHub and finishes.
Well, all right, that seems reasonable enough.
We won't be needing the editor any longer,
so I'll just close it now
but you can feel free to leave it open if you want.
If we wanna run this script,
we're gonna have to make it executable first.
So we type chmod +x
and then update.sh.
And now we can run the script by typing ./update.sh.
And there we go.
That was pretty quick, right?
And now if we look at the files,
we see that there's more stuff here.
And also, the update.sh script
has gone green to indicate that it's executable.
Well, there we go, that's really all there is to this.
It's not very complicated and from now on,
all you'll have to do
is to just run the update script
or of course, like I mentioned,
you could run whatever Git commands you want yourself.
Now, also as I mentioned,
it can be good to keep these files up to date
and this is particularly important
if the lab actually uses these files
to run a program or something like that
but it can also be helpful
because I often include a text file,
listing the different commands I run in each lab.
If you're getting stuck on a particular command,
then you can definitely take a look at what it says there
but I would caution you,
don't do the labs by just copying these commands
and running them.
The whole point here is to learn
and you'll really learn much better
by doing it yourself.
If you have any questions for me,
please let me know.
If not, please feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.