Congratulations Cloud Gurus.
You've reached a milestone.
Now I know it may not feel like much
given that we're so little of the way through this course,
but I wanted to call this out right up front
because it'll help you better understand the road ahead.
Now some of you have just charged ahead
and will leave this course with hyper-speed playback.
And so you've only spent a few minutes so far
on learning Google Cloud.
Others of you may have already spent many hours
and have dug into every additional resource I've linked
and maybe you've even read through the entire site,
reliability engineering book.
Now just like each of you has your own unique background
as we talked about in the course outline,
you each also have your own personal way
of approaching learning.
And I get it.
Some of you might just wanna jump in
and get going with things
and not do anything keeping you from the labs.
But do realize, for example, that skipping the intro to GCP
is a lot like starting a novel at chapter three,
because that was designed
to be this course's 10,000-foot overview
where we set the scene and introduce the main characters.
But who am I to judge though?
I mean, some people even read the last page of a novel
before they decide to start reading it.
If you wanna do it this way, then you can.
But I want you to realize that you will be missing things.
So you may have to catch up with that later on.
This same principle applies to the other things
that you may or may not do along the way,
like the homework labs or reading extra documentation
or whatever.
And this also ties into the progression that I talked about,
where we ramp up over the course.
A few of you might feel like the beginning of this course
has a little too much handholding.
And if this is you just speed up the video player.
But you'll likely find the end of this course
rather more difficult.
And this will be especially true
if you don't do any of the supporting activities
that I recommend throughout the course.
As we go, you'll get tons of opportunities
to dig deeper into the topics that you choose.
So if at the end you do find yourself struggling,
then either circle back and do more of the extra things
on your second pass through the lessons,
or take each of the difficulties that you encounter
as the next challenge to overcome and research it
and ask questions on our forum.
Through this course, I'm teaching you how to fish,
not just feeding you meal after meal.
At the same time as you're learning about Google Cloud,
you should also be learning how to dig deeper for yourself,
because if you don't practice that skill now,
you'll really struggle out in the real world.
And even just this Associate Cloud Engineer Certification
is not a simple undertaking.
It's a substantial one.
And people generally rate this as harder
than AWS' Solutions Architect Associate Certification.
Actually, I compare this more to AWS'
Sysops Administrator Associate Certification,
which is one of their harder ones.
Because this ACE certification has a big emphasis
on understanding and debugging the data flows
that are going inside of the systems built on Google Cloud.
In any case, at this point, you should have an understanding
of Google's philosophy that they're about massive scale,
and they have an engineering approach to everything.
You should also have a sense for GCP,
how it's designed for global systems
and a feel for all of the services that it includes.
But I don't expect you to understand
or even remember all of them.
There are lots of them
and you'll get familiar with a number of them
and how they fit into the ecosystem
as we go through the course.
Now, as we go along, try to see the bigger picture
behind everything we do.
Don't just think about what it is we're doing.
Ask why a lot, both to yourself
and on our forums.
About our forums, don't feel bad about asking questions.
I mean, do try to ask good questions,
but questions are a core part of the learning process.
You'll learn something both by forming the question
and getting a response.
The people answering will learn something
by writing down and backing up their answers.
But many other students will learn too
by getting to read through the discussion,
possibly even for years to come.
So hopefully by this point,
you've found and started to participate in our course forum.
One thread in particular that you might want to look over
is my mega thread, where I've collected people's reports
of how they studied and how they found their exams.
You can get a lot of good ideas from these posts
and you can thank those students for taking the time
to write up their stories by upvoting their posts.
Well, all right.
If you have any questions about any of this,
please let me know.
If not, then let's jump in.
I'll see you in the next lecture.