OK, hello Cloud Gurus.
Let's quickly recap what we've looked at
in this IAM breakdown series of lectures.
A Permission allows you to perform a certain action,
Service.Resource.Verb .
A Role is a collection
of Permissions to use or manage the GCP resources.
The Primitive Roles are the Owner, Editor and Viewer.
But Predefined Roles give you more
granular access to specific resources.
And Custom Roles will let you
define your own granular permissions
if the Predefined Roles aren't just right for you.
A Member is some Google account identity
that's tied to an email address.
And a Policy will bind Members to Roles
for some scope of resources in the resource hierarchy.
Answering the question,
who can do what to which thing?
To manage the Policy attached to a particular resource,
you would rather use
add-iam-policy-binding and remove-iam-policy-binding
instead of using get-iam-policy,
editing the document you get and then using set-iam-policy.
So this is a really important topic.
You need to understand this well
both for real-world use and for your exam.
Since it can often be helpful
to see the same thing presented in multiple different ways,
I've got some resources that you should also take a look at.
Google's IAM overview documentation
could be really helpful and is worth reading.
And their frequently asked questions page
will answer a lot of questions that you either had
or didn't even know that you had.
Google has also published a document called
"Using IAM securely"
and this has a lot of good, best practices.
It gives several examples of concrete ways
to follow the principle of least privilege
and lots of other do's and don'ts
related to security in GCP.
Well all right, if you have
any questions please do let me know.
And don't forget to go to the course forum
and read other people's questions too.
Like I've mentioned, this is a really important topic
so you want to take advantage
of the resources available to you.
Well all right, I'll see you
in the next lecture when you're ready.
Thank you.