[Narrator] - Okay! Hello Cloud Gurus, and
welcome to this lecture, where we're going to look at
how you control Billing in GCP.
So let's start off by looking at Billing Accounts.
A Billing Account represents some way to pay for
GCP service usage.
So, this is required if you want to use any resources,
that aren't just free.
Now, the billing account itself, is
a type of a resource, but
it's one that lives outside of Projects.
But even still, it can belong to an organization,
meaning that the organization owns that billing account.
And in that case, the billing account will
inherit the organization level IAM policies.
So for example, if you were an owner at
the organization level, you would also be an owner
at the billing account level.
Now, billing accounts,
even though they live outside of projects,
can be linked to projects.
But when they do get linked, the billing account still
does not own the project
which means if you attach the policy on the billing account,
it doesn't effect the project in any way.
But these are just a bunch of words, and
like they say a picture is worth a thousand words.
So here's an example of an organization that
has one billing account and three projects.
The organization owns all three projects, and
the billing account, and
the billing account is linked to the three projects.
If you attach a policy at the organization level,
all three projects and
the billing account will inherit it, but
if you attach a policy at the billing account,
it will have no impact on the projects, and
if you attach a policy to any of the projects,
it will have no impact on the billing account either.
Now, this diagram shows a fairly simple situation,
where there's just one billing account, but
you can definitely have multiple.
Depending on how your organization is set up,
you might want multiple billing accounts for things like,
different departments, or production versus development, or
if you're providing service to multiple clients,
you might want to have a separate billing account
for each one. Now the one thing to be aware of though, is
that a single project can only have one link
to a billing account, so even though the organization
can have many billing accounts, and many projects, and
even though each billing account can be linked
to many projects. A single project is only
ever linked to a single billing account.
So, one of the really important roles linked to billing,
is the billing account user.
Now we already used this role in an earlier lab,
to delegate authority from an admin account
to our user account so it can create projects, but
not mess with the billing account settings.
Now let's dig into it a little bit more
based on the documentation.
Google says that the purpose for this is
to link projects to billing accounts.
Well, that's pretty straight forward, right?
And it says that the level is the organization, or
billing account.
So if you grant this role at the billing account level, then
the member that's granted access can link projects
to this billing account.
But, if the role is granted at the organization level, then
the member that's granted access can link a project up
to any of the billing accounts in that organization.
The documentation goes on to say about the use case, that
this role has very restricted permissions.
So you can grant it broadly, typically in combination with
project creator.
These two roles allow a user to create new projects
linked to the billing account on which the role is granted.
But let's take a broader look, at
other billing related roles.
First up, we have the billing account creator.
Now the scope of this role,
or the resource impact, if you will,
is that you can set it at the organization level, and
it gives someone the ability to
create new billing accounts, but
you don't just want to create accounts,
you also need to administer them, and
the billing account administrator role
applies to a particular billing account, and
gives whoever has this role the ability to manage it.
Now depending on your organization, and
how you want to set things up,
this might be the same person, but
the reason these are separate roles is because
they're not always the same person.
You might want to grant someone the role to administer
certain billing accounts that have already been created, but
you want to manage the creation of new ones differently.
The next role is the billing account user, that
we've already seen. So,
managing the details of that billing account is one thing,
but you may well want to grant someone the ability to
link a project to that billing account
without being able to change anything else about it.
And of course that's exactly what we wanted, so
that's what we did.
The billing account viewer role lets you view
billing account cost information and transactions, so
this is a role that could let you audit what's going on, but
not change anything.
The last role we're going to look at,
is the project billing manager, and
the scope of this role is the project.
This gives you the ability to
link projects to billing accounts and unlink them so
it's the project counterpart to the billing account user.
If you want to make a link between a project, and
a billing account, you need to have the
billing account user role on the billing account user role
and you need to have the project billing manager role
on the project.
If you don't have both of them,
you won't be able to make the link.
All right, let's take a quick detour
to talk about invoiced billing. So,
some customers are eligible to change their
billing method to monthly invoiced billing, and
what this means is that instead of having your credit card
automatically charged at the end of the month,
you get billed monthly, and pay by the invoice due date.
When you get the invoice, you can pay it by check or
wire transfer, not just by credit card, and
you can also increase your project and quota limits
when you have invoiced billing.
Now, if you're the billing administrator of an
organization's current billing account
you can contact Google's Cloud Billing Support to
figure out whether you're eligible for invoiced billing, and
to apply to switch to monthly invoicing, but
whether you will be eligible will depend on
how old your account is,
how much you usually spend each month, and
what country you're in.
All right, detour over. I just wanted to cover that because
it comes into play a little bit
when we're talking about the next thing.
Now we're gonna take a look at one of the scenarios
that's described in Google's documentation about
billing access control.
The first scenario here, is that you're a small to medium
enterprise with a preference for centralized control.
In this scenario, we have three different groups of people,
as it relates to billing.
We have the Chief Executive Officer,
the Chief Technical Officer, and
the Development teams.
What we want these different people to be able to do, is we
want the CEO to be able to manage the payment instruments
and to view and improve the invoices.
All the money goes through this CEO.
The CTO, though, will be able to set budget alerts,
see how much is being spent, and
create new billable projects so
that they can get their work done.
The development teams cannot do anything related to billing.
So, what are the roles that these different people will need
to accomplish this? Well,
the CEO here, needs to be the billing account administrator
that's what gives them the ability to manage the
payments, and deal with the invoices.
Now the CTO will definitely need to be a project creator,
and will need at least the billing account user access
to be able to create new billable projects, but
to be able to set budget alerts,
they also need to be the billing account administrator.
So, there's no need to also give them
the billing account user role.
The dev teams here, can only use the projects, and
not deal with the billing.
Now this is a business that wants centralized control, but
the next scenario is very similar, except
they want to delegate their control.
In this case, the different people involved,
might be the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer,
Accounts Payable, and the developments teams.
Here, the CEO wants to be able to manage the
payment instruments, but wants to delegate the authority
for the rest of this stuff to other people.
The CFO in this case, will set the budget alerts, and
view the spend, but
the people who work in Accounts Payable will be doing the
viewing and approving of invoices.
Because this is delegated authority, the development teams
here are trusted, they can create new billable projects,
as they need.
So, the roles follow pretty directly from these billing
activities, like before, the managing of payment
instruments and setting of budget alerts
require those two people to be
the billing account administrator role, but
accounts payable only needs the billing account viewer role,
to see what's going on, and
make sure that it lines up with what they're expecting.
In this case, it's the development teams that are given the
billing account user, and project creator roles.
That's all I really wanted to cover in this lecture.
There are two more scenarios like this, discussed
in the rather short documentation page I've linked, and
I highly recommend that you take a read through them, and
please, post any question you have on our forum.
That'll give both you and others
the chance to work through these scenarios, and
it'll help it sink in much better, and
when you're ready, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Thank you.