Congratulations Cloud Gurus you've reached
a significant milestone.
In this challenge lab I pushed
you to build something on your own.
Its not the most complicated system in the world,
but its an important thing to realize
that that's what this is all about.
The real world is not about following instructions
that someone else gives you.
The real world is about figuring out what needs
to be done and doing it.
And if you took on the advance challenge of scripting
everything then you'll have learned even more and gotten
even more practical value out of it.
Now another thing I hope you've gotten
out of what we've just done is the realization
that what this is all about is causing things to happen.
In this way designing and building systems
like this is a lot more like composing music
and conducting an orchestra, not playing
every instrument yourself.
The power of the Cloud or any abstraction really lies
mostly in not having to do things yourself.
There's a great quote that is often misattributed to Bill
Gates, though the true source is not entirely clear,
and that quote says, "Choose a lazy person to do a hard
job, because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it."
Now there can definitely be value in hard work,
but as much as possible you should look for the way
that takes the least of your time.
Person time is one of the most expensive things
in all systems, and so if you can invest some person time
upfront, to create a system that saves more person time
down the road ,that's a really good trade off.
Even if the system itself costs a bit to run.
So what we have seen is that we can cause a whole
lot of things to happen if we set the right things
up and ask Google to do certain things.
And even if you haven't done the advanced challenge
and you did everything through the console
it was all still a form of automating and packaging
up your instructions and data,
in a way that could be executed by the Google Cloud.
But as we look forward well see other ways
that that can happen.
Well if you have any questions please let me know.
If not then lets get going
with some more Google Cloud stuff huh.
Ill see you in the next lecture.