Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture where I'm not actually
going to teach you how to cheat.
Well, not really anyway.
But I'll get to that in just bit.
So why are you watching this video?
Well for most of you, it's probably just because
this was the next video in the list.
But for some of you, you jumped here
because you were curious about the clickbait title, right?
(chuckles)
Okay, so what is cheating?
Well Google's dictionary definition says that it is
to act dishonestly or unfairly in order to gain
an advantage, especially in a game or examination.
Now if you want to cheat yourself out of succeeding
with a certification exam, then you'll have to look
somewhere else for guidance on that
because I care about you actually succeeding
in the real world and not just on a test.
But this definition says especially in a game or exam
not only that.
So it applies to other situations too.
And that's what I want to point out here.
Now acting dishonestly is right off the table
but who decides what qualifies as unfairly in real life?
Some people, and you will definitely come across
people like this sometimes, they have the misguided belief
that you can't really know what you're doing with something
unless the way that you've learned that thing
is the same as they did.
They probably became an expert with that thing
through years of formal education or experience.
And they think that that's the only way to do it.
Now to be completely honest, I can catch myself feeling
the same way about some things every once and a while.
But it's wrong.
If someone else does that to you, it's called gatekeeping.
And if you do it to yourself, it's called imposter syndrome.
These are a very real problem in IT and we all need to do
what we can to fight them.
Each one of us has a different journey and that's okay.
Is learning something quickly wrong?
Is it unfair to use tools or resources to skill-up
on something efficiently?
I agree that it's good to get experience and learn
from your mistakes, but isn't it even better
to learn from someone else's mistakes?
Well you're taking this course,
so I'm sure you agree with me here.
So on to the reason why I called this lecture
what I did then.
It all comes back to a document made by Greg Wilson
who is the Director of Developer Relations at Google.
He used to call his document GCP Products
Described in Four Words or Less.
But he has since renamed it to the Google Cloud Developer's
Cheat Sheet which is definitely less of mouthful.
But it really has nothing to do
with actual cheating of course.
A cheat sheet is just something that you can refer to
to either remind yourself or get a very basic idea
about something when you don't have time
to research it more fully.
So here it is.
This is what the Google Cloud Cheat Sheet looks like.
Well at least at the time when I'm recording this anyway.
It does get updated fairly regularly, but you don't need
to worry too much about having a slightly older version
printed out say because it will only be missing
just a few of the very newest services or products.
But about that, it really wouldn't be a bad idea at all
to actually print out a copy of this cheat sheet
or maybe a couple of copies even
so you can leave them in different places
so you can easily refer to it whenever you read something
about a Google Cloud product or even just
as a quick reminder of all the different options
you have when you're brainstorming some Google Cloud stuff.
Okay, so this is a really important document.
So please open it up right now.
Yes, right now.
Go ahead.
Hey, I didn't see you open it up yet.
I really mean it, open it up.
Okay, so I was actually tempted to make the rest
of this walk-through just be me talking over
a completely blank screen so that way you'd be forced
to follow along on the document you just opened.
You did right?
But I thought that might be going just a bit too far.
So let's look together at the
Google Cloud Developer's Cheat Sheet.
And for that I'll see you in the next lecture.