Okay, hello Cloud Gurus and welcome.
As we go through this lecture, please follow along
on your own copy
of the Google Cloud Developer's cheat sheet.
So, right off the bat,
when we look at this cheat sheet,
we see that it's divided up
into a whole bunch of different categories.
We have 'Compute Products', 'Storage Products',
'Networking Products', 'Management Tools',
Developer Tools, all sorts of things.
And in each section,
we have a list of a number of
different Google Cloud products.
So first off,
why are these products and services grouped
in this way?
Well okay, fundamentally,
the key reason for this organization
is because it's what Greg Wilson,
who put the original version of this document together,
decided to use.
He thought it would be useful.
But why did he feel that this
is a more useful organization than, say,
sorting everything alphabetically?
Or listing them by how recently they've been released?
I mean, if you know absolutely nothing about the product,
then a full alphabetical list
is probably the easiest way to find it.
And if you're trying to stay up-to-date,
then maybe you just wanna look at the ones
that are most recent, right?
But that's not what this is for.
Each one of the products listed here
is like a piece of a puzzle, they fit together.
Both with each other and with other parts of your system.
But they're not quite like the 500 piece puzzle
that you might buy at a store
and put together to make one exact picture.
These are a lot more like Lego bricks,
they're building blocks.
Now every one of these blocks has a different shape,
they serve different functions.
You can think of each one of these sections
like a bucket of Lego bricks.
Imagine that one of the buckets
has a whole bunch of those huge, flat sheet pieces.
The kind of piece that you use
as a foundation for the rest of what you're building.
And another bucket
might have a whole bunch of tiny and flexible pieces.
They're really uselful for certain circumstances,
but they take forever if you wanna build something big
out of just those.
And most of the other buckets
are a bunch of generally useful pieces.
In the Lego world, that's like the two by twos,
two by fours, two by eights.
One by tens, wheel bases,
all sorts of things like that.
When you're building something out of blocks,
you need to pick a block with a right shape.
And in a weird kind of way,
these groups are kind of the shapes
of the different products.
Now I'd like to point out three important categories.
Without fail, every single system in IT
revolves around data flow.
It's taking data or information
and it's moving it around,
processing it and remembering it.
So most systems will require some
amount of support for compute, storage
and networking, or messaging.
But there's more than that.
It's not such a clean division,
there's actually quite a bit of overlap.
An easy example is a database
that combines both compute and storage.
And in that way, really creates
quite a valuable category of its own.
Sure, it's remembering data,
but when you ask it for data,
it's also doing processing.
Filtering all the data down
to just the part that you're interested in
and transforming it so that it's in a format
that you can use.
And in fact, if you have replication
set up for your database,
then it's also moving the data
from one place to another.
And some other categories are a little bit less
about the shape of the different services,
and a bit more about the theme.
For example, the section called,
'Data and Analytics Products',
lists a whole bunch of services
that you're likely to use together.
Kind of like how
if you were building with Legos,
you might have one bucket that is the 'space' theme,
where you have lots of gray pieces
and computers that you can use to build spaceships.
Those pieces aren't all the same shape,
but they go together in a really useful way.
Now continuing on with this Lego analogy,
there are two specific line items
that I wanna call out.
The first one is in the 'Management Tools Products' section,
called the 'Cloud Deployment Manager'.
The cheat sheet calls this,
'Templated Infrastructure Deployment.'
This product is kind of like buying a box of Lego pieces,
with instructions to build a particular thing.
You get all the pieces you need listed in the template,
and just pushing a few buttons
winds up building the whole thing.
But this is your template,
and you can change it however you want.
Just like with a Lego set,
you might combine several things together,
you might chop some stuff out,
you might swap some pieces out for something else,
it's entirely up to you.
But the 'Cloud Deployment Manager'
is a pretty important thing to understand
because of how it fits into everything else.
The next thing that I wanted to call out
is in the 'API platform and Ecosystems' section.
In particular, the 'GCP Marketplace'
is a partner and open-source marketplace.
This also has sets of pieces all packaged together,
but a difference here is
that instead of you controlling all of the details,
and building it yourself,
the 'GCP Marketplace' is more
about buying completed things,
that might even all be glued together,
so that you can't take them apart.
I hope that makes sense to you
and if it doesn't, then please let me know,
but in any case, let's move on to taking a look
at some of the specific ones and who knows,
maybe that will help it click for you
if you didn't get it already anyway.
Well, all right, I'll see you in the next lecture, thanks.