Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture where I'll be going through
the practice exam questions related to this Challenge Lab.
Now, before we start into the questions
I just wanna give you a very quick summary of my strategy
for breaking down certification exam questions like these.
You can find the full version of this in my Cert Prep Guide
and I'll put a link to the key lecture
in the Resources section for this lecture.
But as I've mentioned before, it can be helpful
for you to go through the entire guide.
In any case, the first step to breaking down
an exam question is to understand what's going on.
In any question there's almost always going to be
some description and then what I call a kicker.
The key question at the end that might ask something like,
how would you do this in a cost-effective way
or how would you debug this problem?
It's important to keep this key question in mind
because this is really what you're answering.
You also need to understand what everything means
both in the question and in each of the responses.
But understanding doesn't just mean the terms,
it also means that you should think through the data flow.
The next step is to eliminate.
You need to eliminate response options
that have fake information or problems,
something that goes wrong in them
and you should also get rid of responses that conflict
with that key question, the kicker.
Eliminating responses is a really critical part
of answering these questions correctly.
In fact, it's probably even the most important thing.
Once you've eliminated different options,
you need to evaluate the ones that are left.
You can compare them with each other
and think through what it means
in terms of different trade-offs.
Maybe some options will be much more expensive
than other options, or some options
are more secure than others, you should be thinking
about all sorts of different trade offs.
You should definitely pay attention
to the ones that are called out, but don't forget
to consider the ones that are just implied to.
Once you've evaluated the options, you need to choose
exactly the right number of options
that the question requests, some questions may ask you
to choose two or three different responses,
so make sure you do that.
Now sometimes a good way to do this, is to order the options
that you haven't eliminated
in terms of how you've evaluated them
and then either just pick the ones at the top,
or knock out the ones at the bottom.
After you've done that, don't forget to validate
your choices, make sure that you're actually answering
the key question and that you don't accidentally wind up
conflicting with it.
But okay, enough about that let's move on
to the first question.
You have been tasked with configuring
a number of, to-be-created GCE instances,
which of the following should you do choose two?
So right off the bat, we're thinking
about Google Compute Engine Instances,
and how to set them up.
A, write one startup script per instance
and pass it in as the startup dash script metadata.
Well, this might be possible, what would you do here?
Let's say that you had five instances,
you would be writing five different scripts,
it doesn't seem ideal, but it might work, let's keep going.
B, write one the startup script for the fleet
and pass additional metadata to each instance.
Well, that definitely seems like an interesting possibility,
having only one startup script for a group of instances
is much easier to maintain and a good way to configure
any instance level specifics is to pass additional metadata,
so this definitely seems like a good option.
C, install, the Stackdriver logging agent
in your startup script.
Well, this also seems like a good idea.
When you do install the logging agent
you get better information about that instance,
so that seems good too.
D, in your startup script, double-check
that the Stackdriver agent was already installed by default.
Well, this is inaccurate, it's not installed by default,
you have to install it yourself,
so I would say we should eliminate D.
E, use Google's instance Fleet service
to run your preexisting Chef recipes.
Well, you can't use Chef recipes to configure machines
which is something you might or might not know
depending on your background,
but Google doesn't have an instance Fleet service,
so we should eliminate this option too.
So we've eliminated options D and E,
but now we have to choose
exactly two of the remaining options.
If I compare A and B, I definitely prefer B over A
so I would say that I should choose B and C instead
and these do seem to line up with the key question.
All right, next question two.
Your accounting department wishes you to create
Google Compute Engine instances with a label
that has the key of department and the value of development
to assist with tracking the instances you create.
Which of the following options is the best way
to apply labels to those instances?
Well, if we look at this question it doesn't really matter
why we're setting these labels,
whether it's the accounting department that asks us
or some compliance, or just because we feel like it,
that probably won't really affect which answers we choose.
The key question here is which of the following options
is the best way to apply labels to those instances?
So option A, after the instance has been created,
go to the Instance Details page and edit the Labels section.
Well, it is possible to edit the labels
in the Details page of an instance,
so I wouldn't eliminate this option
but I don't really like this idea.
You don't wanna edit the labels after you've created it,
you wanna create it with the correct labels
right off the bat.
B, write a command line script to apply labels
to any newly-created instances.
Well, this seems to me, again like it's working
after the fact, you could write a command line script
to do this, but it still doesn't see my ideal.
C, set a project level metadata item
called apply underscore labels, with a value
of department:development.
Well, this just seems wonky, setting metadata like this
is about communicating information to the running instances,
and we need to talk to the GCE control plane
to set the labels.
This is a completely wrong data flow, and it wouldn't work
unless you had something running on the instance
to reach out to the control plane to set the labels.
D, when creating the instance in the console,
expand the Management tab and set the label there.
Well, this would definitely work if you are creating
an instance manually you could set the label there.
This seems like the best option to me so far.
E, in the console activity screen set a trigger
for instance creation and set the action
to apply label department:development.
This isn't something you can do like that,
so we should eliminate it.
So in the end, I choose option D.
Question three, you believe that the startup script
for a newly created GCE instance did not run at all,
which of the following steps should you take
to help investigate this problem, choose two.
A, restart the instance in SSH mode.
Well, there isn't an SSH mode and you don't need
to restart the instance to be able to connect to it,
so we should just eliminate this.
B, press the SSH button on the Instance Details page
in the console.
Well, this definitely could work, there is such a button
and connecting to the machine definitely could help you
investigate the problem.
C, go to the Stackdriver Logs page for this instance
and press the Pull Logs button.
Well no, this is wrong, this data flow does not work.
Stackdriver does not pull logs from the instances,
the instances are set up to push their logs
to Stackdriver through the agent.
Unsurprisingly, there is no such Pull Logs button
and this option is just wrong, we should eliminate it.
D, check the machine's syslog.
Well that definitely could help, in the syslog,
you could see it trying to run this script,
maybe it failed to retrieve it from the metadata service
or maybe something went wrong when it did run,
this could be very helpful information.
E, from the instance, run the command
curl-h GoogleHeader: Allow https://metadata/startup-script.
Well, this is not going to work, the header is wrong,
the address is wrong and the metadata service
uses the HTTP protocol not HTTPS,
we should definitely eliminate this.
So we've eliminated options A, C and E,
so we're just left with B and D.
Does it make sense to press the SSH button
on the Instance Details page in the console
and then check the machine's syslog?
Definitely, those are the right answers.
Next question, question four.
You have a GCE instance with startup script
that writes to GCs when it completes
but you are not seeing the file appear in the GCs bucket.
Which of the following should you do
to help diagnose this situation?
Well, this scenario is very similar to our Challenge Lab
and that's as I modeled this question
after our Challenge Lab, when I was making it up
but it's still a perfectly valid question in its own right,
so let's break it down.
A ,look at the GCE console's monitoring tab
to see whether any error messages were logged
by the start-up script.
Well, this just doesn't work,
the data does not flow like that.
The GCE console's Monitoring tab has information
that it can get from the hypervisor,
so we can see things like CPU usage
but it can not see error messages logged
by the start-ups script, we should eliminate this option.
B, look at the activity screen in the GCP console
to see whether there is currently any outage.
Well an outage could potentially explain this,
but you don't see that on the activity screen
in the GCP console, so we should eliminate this option too.
C, check whether the scopes are set
to allow writes to storage.
Well, this is definitely an important thing to check
and it could help you diagnose the situation,
so we don't eliminate this but let's keep moving on.
D, check whether the instance has it's Allow HTTP Traffic
and allow HTTPS Traffic checkboxes set.
Well, this is the wrong direction for the data flow,
those checkboxes do exist, but they're all
about opening the ports in the firewall
for traffic that starts outside of the instance
and is going into it.
And nothing in this scenario requires or expects us
to be running a server on that instance,
that instance is simply reaching out
and you don't need these checkboxes set to connect
to either the metadata service or to GCS.
And we've seen that in practice, in our Challenge Lab
we should eliminate this option too.
E, none of the other responses is appropriate.
Well, this is wrong and should be eliminated too
because when we came across option C,
we thought it was good, so we stick with C
and that's the right answer.
Question number five, you have a GCE instance
with a startup script that writes to GCS when it completes
but you are not seeing the file appear in the GCS bucket,
seem familiar so far?
Which of the following should you do
to help fix this situation?
So we're dealing with the same scenario
but the kicker is just a little bit different.
In this case, we wanna do something to make it work
rather than just find out more information.
A, remove the default service account from the instance.
Well, that doesn't seem valuable,
in our Challenge Lab, we used the default service account
and it was able to write to GCS just fine.
This is not the right answer.
B, restart the machine so that the metadata will be updated.
Well again, we saw that we don't need to restart the machine
to get new metadata, so even if the problem
was that some metadata was out of date,
restarting the machine would be the wrong way to solve it.
We should eliminate this option too.
C, wait at least four hours
for the new buckets DNS to propagate.
Now, regardless of whether you know
all about DNS propagation, we've seen firsthand
that you don't need to wait four hours to be able to use
a new bucket from an instance like this, this is wrong.
D, ensure that the buckets allowed writers file
includes this instance.
Well, we never had to set anything
about an allowed writers file,
this is also not a good answer.
E, make sure that the instances IP tables configuration
includes the bucket's ANSI IP address
in the Allow Full Column.
Well, this is just technobabble,
some of those terms might exist
but the way they're all put together makes no sense at all.
And simply from your experience
of going through the Challenge Lab, I think you could see
that this isn't the right answer.
F, none of the other responses is appropriate.
Well of all of these responses, I think this is the only one
that makes sense and that's the right answer.
Well, all right, I'd like to leave you
with this reminder about the question strategy
but I'd also like to ask you, does this make sense to you?
Do you see how thinking through the data flow
leads to many option eliminations in questions like these?
Do you feel confident that you would now be able
to answer questions like these on your exam?
Well, if you have any questions for me, please let me know,
if not, please feel free to move on
to the next lecture, thank you.